All right, so we got some really
good questions during the exercise.
So I think I'm going to solve
the exercise with everybody together and
then I've got I think three that I saw and
then if anybody else has any
will go through those too.
So yeah, so for the step through debugging
Like usually when you have error,
the console is always like
a good place to start,
like usually anything that throws
will end up in the console.
So the first thing I see
is like this type error.
So the console is a nice way to get to
the sources tab as opposed to looking
through the file yourself.
So I'll go ahead and click on it and
it'll take me over here and
this specific error was documented,
that newElement is not a function.
So if I go to my sources over here.
Then maybe do like a Google search or
something like document new element.
I can see that the actual API is
createElement, not newElement.
So we can go ahead in our IDE.
We can go ahead and
change that to createElement.
Then I'll hit save, and then I'll refresh.
So now there's no more console error and
I saw some folks kind of getting to here.
It's like, okay,
it's not a JavaScript error, but
why is it rendering like this
giant list of undefined.
So we go back into our sources and
we can just do something set a breakpoint.
And so I'll set a breakpoint and
then I'll refresh the page.
So we hit this break point, it stopped
here, I can use the watch over here.
So for example, I can watch on li, and
I can see that it is in fact, a list item.
So that I mean that looks good.
And then I can add another watch item and
I can make it item.
And so I can see as an object
with a bunch of stuff.
So what it looks like we're doing is
we're setting li.innertext to item.fact.
And we can see if we hover over the fact
is set to undefined whereas item is set to
an object.
So I can go ahead and I can browse in
here, trying to see what's going on here.
I can see that there isn't a fact
property, but there is a text property.
So I can go back to my code here and
change it from item fact to item text and
hit save again.
I'll remove this break point for
now and refresh.
And now we've got all these facts about
cats, which I'll try very hard not to
read and in fact move on with the rest of
the content but a couple of things here.
There's a couple different
ways you could solve it.
Again, I'm kind of just
trying to highlight like,
I think normally what I would have
done was console logged item here, but
it is kind of nice to combine like the
debugger was like actually like take that
second to breathe and
look around at the function.
Look around with the object, see what
you have access to, what you don't.
It's kind of a nice way to do it.
We got a couple questions
that were really good.
So one question was about
what you put in watchers.
And it was like, do you have to
specify what you put in the watch?
Or can you just watch everything?
So the answer is that you do have to
specify what you put in the watch.
You can't put like a wild card in.
But if I go ahead and I refresh here,
or maybe make a breakpoint here and
play to it, I can close what's in my
watchers and I can look at my scope.
And so if you come down here into
scope and you'll get local scope,
you can see everything that you do
have access to in this function.
You can also see everything you have
access to in the global function.
So if you wanna browse what you have
access to scope is the place to do that.
If you want to keep an eye on a very
specific one watch is the place
to do that.
We had another question was my
extensions are getting in the way,
and so you kind of have two options.
If you notice a Chrome extension is
getting in the way one is to open
an incognito window and
do the same thing there.
The other one is you can go to Window and
extensions.
And then you can just
deactivate all of them here so
that that won't uninstall them, right like
here, you can just deactivate LastPass and
close it and then refresh the site
again so you can kind of go either way.
It is a tricky thing.
It's bitten me a lot before in real life
production cases where I'm experiencing
something and
it turns out to be a Chrome extension.
So I think it's a good idea
to either turn them off.
One other cool thing you
could do is I oftentimes,
like I'll have Chrome as my
daily driver for my browser.
And then, I'll download Chrome Canary,
which is their like, pre release, build.
I'll use Chrome Canary
with zero extensions.
That'll be like my,
what I use for dev tools,
whereas like Chrome will be
like what I use for browsing.
So you have a couple of
different options there.
But it is good to keep in mind that
that the extensions can break it.
>> I have a quick question for the watch.
>> Yeah.
>> If you're setting the watch do you also
have to set a breakpoint on
this specific element that
you're watching where those specific
variables that you're watching?
Or good at if you set it,
let's say after the elements
when you call it, would that still work?
>> Yeah.
So basically what this is gonna do is
every time a breakpoint gets hit,
it will update the values in here.
So like if you had like a function that
set foo and then way later you put a break
point it would still have access to foo
because that's totally fine but as for
like keeping track of, it'll update every
time you either hit a break point or
like you step in or
out of a function that will update then.
So it doesn't really matter
where you place it but
this will only post data when you've
like hit a breakpoint basically.
Somebody had asked, okay,
without doing workspaces, is there
a way to get your changes so that they
will persist through a refresh, right?
So not necessarily writing to disk and
that whole thing, but I just want to be
able to like change some JavaScript,
refresh the page and see it execute.
There is a way to do that.
And so to do that,
you come over here to the left panel,
where we were on page before, and
you click over here to overrides.
And what you have to do is you have
to create or give Chrome a folder to
store all these little diffs and
it can be literally anything.
So you can click Select Folder for
overrides,
you can make your own
folder that's no problem.
Like I can make a folder and
call it like FUBAR or something like that.
You could put it in your documents so
you can make it, Chrome,
local overrides folder,
anything like that, it's fine.
When you select it, you'll have to go
through the permissions process or
like allow and your OS might ask to.
But once that is that, then we can do
things like we could go to the body.
We could do you know, like background
color red or something like that.
And now when we refresh, it'll stay red.
And we can do that with our sources panel
and our JavaScript, everything like that.
So if you're that's,
that's always good for like, if you're,
especially with JavaScript that runs once,
I think somebody had asked about this
earlier to where it's like,
you load the page and you make an edit and
you want to see it and then you refresh
which gets the page from the server again,
so you've lost your edit,
like that kind of thing.
So if you go to sources overrides and set
up an override, you'll be able to get that